---
layout: contact
---

# Minutes of the 34th meeting of the Scala Center, Q4 2024

Minutes are [archived](https://scala.epfl.ch/records.html) on the
Scala Center website.

## Summary

The following agenda was distributed to attendees:
[agenda](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/blob/main/agendas/034-2024-q4.md).

Center activities for the past quarter focused on Scala 3 maintenance,
the Scala 3 language specification, Scala.js maintenance, the Scala
Improvement Process, sbt 2, the new Scala Highlights newsletter,
Google of Summer Code, Scala Advent of Code, compiler sprees, Scala
Days, and fundraising.

Details are below and in the Center's activity report:

* [report](https://scala.epfl.ch/records/2024-Q4-activity-report.html)

One new proposal was received this quarter:

* [SCP-034](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/blob/main/proposals/034-artifact-publishing.md): Artifact publishing

After discussion, the board decided to postpone any formal vote on it.

Other topics covered included officer elections; officers remained
unchanged.

## Date, Time and Location

The meeting took place virtually on Wednesday, February 5, 2025 at
16:15 (UTC).

Minutes were taken by Seth Tisue (secretary).

## Attendees

The company formerly known as Lightbend is now called Akka.  Lukas
Rytz is still the Akka representative, but he was unavailable for this
meeting so Seth filled in.

Officers:

* Chris Kipp (chairperson), community
* Darja Jovanovic (executive director), EPFL
* Sébastien Doeraene (interim technical director), EPFL
* Martin Odersky (technical advisor), EPFL
* Seth Tisue (secretary), Akka

Board members:

* Zainab Ali, community representative
* Krzysztof Romanowski, VirtusLab (substituting for Krzysztof Borowski)
* Dmitrii Naumenko, JetBrains
* Seth Tisue, Akka (substituting for Lukas Rytz)
* Eugene Yokota, community representative

Apologies:

* Daniela Sfregola, Morgan Stanley

## Technical report

Séb, as interim technical director, summarized Scala Center activities
since the last meeting. His remarks were based on the Center's more
detailed Q4 quarterly activity report:

* [report](https://scala.epfl.ch/records/2024-Q4-activity-report.html)

And the Center's 2025 Q1 roadmap:

* [roadmap](https://scala.epfl.ch/records/2025-Q1-roadmap.html)

The following notes do not repeat the contents of the report and
roadmap, but only supplement them.

Séb noted that at its current staffing level the Center is currently
doing at least as much organizing and community work as technical
work.

A board member asked where Scala.js's WebAssembly back end stands.
Séb said that optimizing the back end is still pending. Closures in
particular are not optimized yet. Martin added that stable exceptions
support in WebAssembly in browsers is another pending issue preventing
the Center's work on this from being quite ready yet for use in common
scenarios.

There was some technical discussion about how the Scala 3 debugger
would be packaged to be consumed by IntelliJ and other tools. Also,
an officer asked about the debugger code moving into the main Scala 3
repo; does that mean that fixes require a new language release? Séb
said yes, but that code is now stable enough now for it to be worth
it.

## Scala 2 report

This was presented by Seth.

Scala Newsletter is out today, and covers both Scala 3 and Scala 2.
Let us know what you think, as this will be the template for future
issues, which will be published quarterly.

Since the last meeting, we published a blog post about our Scala 2
maintenance plans. Note that 2.12 is now under minimal maintenance.

Scala 2.13.15 and 2.13.16 came out since the last meeting.  Changes
were modest and focused on compatibility, on supporting Scala 3
migration, and on improvements to warnings and linting.  There have
been no 2.13.16 regression reports, so if anyone was holding back on
upgrading, I'd say go ahead.

As usual, we've opened threads on the Contributors forum for
discussing plans for the next releases:

* 2.13.17: https://contributors.scala-lang.org/t/scala-2-13-17-release-planning/6994
* 2.12.21: https://contributors.scala-lang.org/t/scala-2-12-21-release-planning/6753

We plan for
[SIP-51](https://docs.scala-lang.org/sips/drop-stdlib-forwards-bin-compat.html)
(resuming making additions to the standard library) to be a theme
for 2.13.17.

An officer asked: if the primary motivation for maintaining 2.12 is sbt 1,
does that mean that when sbt 2 comes out, 2.12 be EOLed?  Seth
responded: perhaps eventually, but not right away. We are assuming a
longer timeframe since sbt 1 will remain in wide use for some time yet
to come, even once sbt 2 is available.

## SCP-034: Artifact publishing

Eugene summarized [the
proposal](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard/blob/main/proposals/034-artifact-publishing.md).

Séb expressed support; "it seems like a sensible thing to do". One
board member wondered if maintainers would be sufficiently motivated
to migrate to a shared implementation. Another member asked if there's
a particular current implementation that would be the basis of the
shared one; there was no simple, single answer.

The rest of the discussion centered on whether the Center would have
enough engineering resources this year to lead this. In the end, the
board decided not to formally vote on it now, but revisit the proposal
later. Chris suggested that Eugene amend the proposal to reflect
today's discussion.

## Elections

For chairperson, Chris Kipp indicated his willingness to continue as
chair and was elected unanimously. (Chairs are not required to serve
past one year, but a willing chair is welcome to serve for longer.)

Also re-elected without any other nominations being made were Martin
Odersky (technical advisor) and Seth Tisue (secretary).

## Community report

This section was led by Zainab and Eugene.

Zainab said the London community is currently strong, with more events
occurring, with attendance up as well. The London Scala group is now
doing open-source hack days and women-in-Scala meetings, in addition
to the usual meetups with speakers. ScalaBridge has received feedback
that it could devote more time to setup and tooling, as that usually
causes participants more trouble than the language itself.

Eugene noted that X (aka Twitter) is no longer as universal a source
of news and discussion; some users remain but others have dispersed to
Bluesky and/or Mastodon. He said that as a result, the Scala Reddit is
even more important to the community than before, and the discussions
and engagement there have been strong recently (including topics about
education and training).

He also observed that there have been several extremely active
language design discussions recently, such as the one about collection
literals.  There was some discussion among the board about how these
proposals and discussions can best be framed and structured, to
encourage high quality engagement and ensure that people feel heard.

There was some also some discussion on how to better coordinate
language changes with tooling maintainers, including the recent
introduction of the concept of "preview" features as an intermediate
state between "experimental" and completed.

One board member expressed a wish for Scala people (perhaps even
Center members) to more present at non-Scala conferences, representing
Scala outside of our own community.

There was some discussion around how having a smaller engineering
staff may change community perception of the Center. There was general
agreement that our publicity should focus on what advances are
happening and not too much on exactly where they happened (except, of
course, to give credit where credit is due!). That's part of the idea
behind the new Scala Highlights newsletter, which is assembled by the
Center, but isn't restricted to presenting the Center's own
activities.

## Management and financial report

Darja said that a major piece of news since the last meeting was the
publication in October of the new Scala governance and "development
guarantees" documents, as described in [this blog
post](https://www.scala-lang.org/news/new-governance.html).

Also very important, the publication of the first issue of [Scala
Highlights](https://www.scala-lang.org/highlights/2025/02/06/highlights-2024.html).
The first issue covers all of 2024; future issues will have quarterly
news.

The Center's finances have improved thanks to one-time donations and
assistance from several sources. Regardless, hiring additional staff
would require additional funding. Fundraising efforts are ongoing.

The Center is also still in the process of reviving Scala Days for
later in 2025. (Later, after the meeting, plans were finalized and
[August 2025 dates were announced](https://www.scala-lang.org/blog/2025/02/18/announcing-scala-days-2025.html).)

## Conclusion

The next meeting will be held online, probably in April. If possible,
a late-summer or fall meeting will be held in-person at EPFL.
